.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _insert-content-in-a-template:

Insert content in a template
----------------------------

We now know how to render content, and how to build a menu; but we
still do not have a real website, yet.

We could build a website with COAs, and create the *complete* HTML
skeleton with TypoScript. However, this would be very complex, and
prone to errors. If the HTML template file has been built by a template
designer and is delivered completely done, it gets even more
complicated, especially with slight changes in the layout, afterwards.

Therefore, we have the object TEMPLATE, with which we can parse an
HTML template file, and insert the menu, content, and so on, at the
right place into it. ::

    page.10 = TEMPLATE
    page.10 {
     template = FILE

     # We load the HTML template file.
     template.file = fileadmin/test.tmpl

     # Text areas in the template file:
     # <!-- ###MENU### begin -->
     # Here is an example of content as placeholder, everything which is
     # in between the markers will be replaced by the content of the
     # sub-parts, in this case by the menu.
     # <!-- ###MENU### end -->

     # Subparts are a pair of two markers (like "###MENU###" above).
     subparts {
       MENU < lib.textmenu
       CONTENT < styles.content.get
       COLUMNRIGHT < styles.content.getRight
     }

     # Marks are single markers. That is, there is no start and end marker;
     # instead, the marker is replaced directly. ###LOGO### will
     # be replaced by the logo.
     marks {
       LOGO = IMAGE

       # Use the graphic logo.gif.
       LOGO.file = fileadmin/templates/logo.gif

       # The logo links to the page with ID 1.
       LOGO.stdWrap.typolink.parameter = 1
     }
     workOnSubpart = DOCUMENT
    }

With the TEMPLATE object, TYPO3 offers a way to replace markers in an
HTML template with content generated by TYPO3.

One marker is called a **mark**. Two markers with the same name (like
*<!-- ###MENU### begin -->* and *<!-- ###MENU### end -->* above) are
called a **subpart**. When TYPO3 finds marks or subparts in the HTML
template, it will replace them - and in case of subparts everything
between them - with what you defined in the TypoScript template for the
according mark or subpart. In this example, the subpart MENU will be
replaced by the rendering of lib.textmenu.

An alternative to this solution could be the extension
`automaketemplate
<http://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/automaketemplate>`_, with
which it is possible to abandon markers completely. Instead, it uses
IDs as references, and thus allows better cooperation with the template
designer.

Another alternative would be the extension `templavoila
<http://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/templavoila>`_. This
extension provides a visual user interface. This is not recommended for
beginners, though.


